Hey friends. I want to
thank our sponsor. Reagan, are
you struggling to replicate the
bugs and performance issues that
your customers are reporting, plug
Reagan into your web and
mobile applications right now, and
diagnose problems in minutes rather
than hours. Kiss goodbye. Having
to dig through log files
and relying on frustrated users
to report issues, make your
software development life so much
easier using Reagan's error, crash,
and performance monitoring tools. Every
software team can create flawless
software experiences for their customers
with Reagan. Try it free
today@raygun.com. That's our a Y
G U n.com. . Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another Hansel minutes. And
today I'm talking with dr.
Kutz research scientist, working with
the United States air force Academy.
You have amazing LinkedIn, and
I'm not going to talk
about any of this stuff,
even though that would be
a, probably a better show.
In fact, what I want
to talk to you about
is the space or three
60, the greatest controller ever
created during the nineties. Indeed.
Thank you very much, Scott.
And it was wonderful to
be on the show. Know
the, the space orb was
quite a find at the
time I was still regarded
as one of the most
interesting controllers made in the
history of computer games. And
it's a bit of a
pity that a, that concept
hasn't been picked up on
and carried forward, but it
still exists today and yeah,
you can still use them
the, the space orb. Now
of course, we're on a
podcast, so we can't exactly
see this, but you can
certainly go out and Google
for it. But how would
you, how would you explain
the space? What does it
look like? It's a sort
of a curious beast. So
we're all familiar. I think
with the game pad, that's
sort of become the standard
for engagement with computer games
these days, but you have
to imagine something that's a
bit plainer than that with
just a few buttons. And
instead of all the joysticks
and touch pads and all
the other stuff sprouting from
it, there was just a
big ball and that ball
was the focal point for
whatever your avatar in the
game would do. If you
want her to move ahead
and turn left and look
up all at the same
time, you would just push
the ball in that direction.
And that's what you do.
And it was really something
at the time I first
ran across it, just set
the stage. This is back
in the 1990s, windows 95
had just come out and
windows, wasn't really an Avenue
for games. And I just
produced a rather bad show
where a game called Flynn
sprint. And at any rate
that led me to the
game developers conference of 1996.
And it was, it's hard
to really describe the hope
and potential that, that, that
area felt like, I mean,
blizzard had just come out
with a Warcraft to the
folks who did the flying
toaster screensaver. If you remember
that were there. And then
I saw this odd little
game controller there and nothing
else was quite like it.
This is a, an era
when oftentimes game controllers would
be made to fit a
particular game. You had a
entire series of flight Sims,
which had, you know, fighter
sticks and crusted with buttons
and switches. You had odd
little game controllers, and then
you have the space org.
And it was originally packaged,
I think with a six
degree freedom game called forsaken.
So six degrees of freedom
games like descent and forsaken,
where you can move in
all six axes of movement
at once were horrendously difficult
to control with keyboard and
mouse, which was the standards.
And so people tried different
things in the space where
it was one to actually
navigate through them, the ball
on the space, or I
always imagined it as like
the head of the person
on their neck. And it's
almost like you grabbed someone's
head and just gave it
a little push forward. And
then you could twist the
head and like you strafed
by basically imagine if you
pushed yourself in your ear
laterally. So then you could
do strafing twisting lookup, maneuvers
stuff that I don't even
know if you could do
that today with two thumbs
walk sideways, look up into
the left while turning exactly.
It was absolutely dynamite for
some games that are required,
that sort of free movement
on it. And at the
same time it was horribly
flawed. And I think part
of that is the reason
that it had such difficulty
gaining traction for six degree
of freedom games. There really
was nothing else. But the
problem is that this freedom
came with a bit of
a penalty and that's that
it was actually very difficult
to do very precise, aiming.
And so with so many
computer games focusing on targeting
and, and very precise shots,
people who were extremely competitive
actually didn't like it that
much because it was very
difficult to line up, say
a sniper shot or something
like that. So for example,
in a team fortress two,
which is a very popular
online first person shooter type
game, for one thing, you're
not using all six degrees
of freedom to begin with,
but for something like a
scout, we were moving quickly
running, jumping, avoiding enemy fire.
It was dynamite. I actually
got banned from a surfer
at the time for using
it, which surprised me because
if I switched to a
different class like a sniper,
I couldn't land a single
shot. So it was really
very on and off, but
I found it absolutely fascinating
that it was so intuitive
in a genre that was
extremely difficult to control. And
other ways, in fact, I
had a young friend of
the son of a friend
of mine who played dissent
recently. He was very into
retro gaming and I had
him try it with a
space orb. And he said,
you know, this is janky
and hard to control, but
I feel like this is
just how it's meant to
be played. And that's exactly
the right feeling when you
get a controller that matches
with what you want to
do as that, that is
the way it's meant to
be played. So I rather
regret that we don't have
that well, we do in
some areas, but that freedom
of, of trying lots of
things. And then everything is
kind of standardized to the
two thumb game pad nowadays,
right. And then of course
there's the mouse and keyboard
people that are convinced that,
whereas D plus mouse is
the, the one true way,
but it's really the one
true way for the sniper
for the, for the precision
shot, because your precision is
on your mouse. But ultimately
if you want to stray
look up into the right,
all at the same time,
your strife is a binary
thing, you're your movement of
Right? Or I'm not because
I'm using the DBA On
the keyboard, right. And this
was extremely, it was very
analog. So you could do
all of those things with
a certain degree of, of
elegance once you got the
hang of it, but there
was this learning curve associated
with it. And I think
that learning curve, you know,
it was very difficult to
isolate movements. At first, when
you were using it, you
try and move forward and
you find yourself flipping left
and rolling over at the
same time. And I think
that through gamers a lot
as well, and people liked
the ability to jump right
in and start going. So
there was a certain amount
of learning involved and there
still is to be honest.
Yeah. It feels to me
like we have almost, I
would say settled it's that
we've picked the most generic
thing that the two thumbs
is the one that's generic.
Like a couple of days
ago. I finally received my,
my modified end 60 For
where I added an ultra
HD. So I have an
N 64 with an HTMI
port. I was playing perfect
dark. And the only true
way to play perfectly Dark
is not with one of
the, The janky single thumb
stick and 64 controllers. But
rather with two one in
each hand, thereby Simulating the
didn't exist at the time
two thumb stick controller. It's
kind of sad that there
aren't different controllers for yeah.
Different games. Otherwise we'd have
a diversity in our choices.
Well, in a way, yes,
there's a, a, there's a
branch of linguistics relative linguistics,
which posits that you can
only think thoughts that you
have the ability to express
in language and whether or
not you agree with that.
I think that's definitely the
case for controllers. If you've
got a wheel and pedals
that you'd use for driving
a car, or you won't
even think about the things
you could do flying a
plane with them. And so
I feel like the fact
that we have standardized on
basically the two thumb stick
game pad is a boon
for economics and game consoles
everywhere, but it does restrict
the things you can even
think about doing in a
game, what minor diversion I'm
playing with virtual reality now.
And I think it's very
fun to see that just
a change in controllers and
behavior changes the kind of
games which are made. You've
got two things that look
like, you know, feel like
sword. So you have games
like beat saber, or you
have endless archery simulators, and
that's different entirely, I think
because of the controller and
the perception. So it's, it's
fun to think of what
games would have looked like
if something like the space
orbit really taken over and
lasted. But like, I, I
have a, I'm very lucky
and blessed to have a,
an HTC Vive, which has
those, Those controllers and they're,
they're lovely. But then I
also am looking at a
mixture of windows mixed reality,
like on a lower end
virtual reality head set. And
while it has that stick,
you know, the bottom part
of the lightsaber, ultimately it's
just two buttons a trigger
and there's that thumb stick
again. So right. They've taken
an Xbox controller and split
it in half and now
you hold each half basically.
So there's a lack of
creativity there. So then you're
saying that that would indirectly,
without even realizing it, the
mind of the developer so
that they designed to that
constraint, maybe, even though they
don't know that they're, I
think it definitely does. And
one of the nice things
about things like the Vive
and other headsets nowadays, is
that you can still use
a game pad or other
controller. And one of the
most mind-numbingly nausea dating experiences
I've had recently was actually
playing dissent overload, which is
rewrite of the original descent
in virtual reality, using the
space orb, which was an
really peculiar experience marrying these
old games of the mid
nineties with the most modern
technology and display. And it
was surprisingly effective, actually still
great fun. And so it's
fun that the controller and
the game, honestly, it's still
relevant after, Oh goodness, 20
something years. And also there's
a lot of innovation happening
with things like the Xbox
accessibility Controller, which theoretically be
used by, By someone else.
Who's, who's not differently. We
could use that. Just like
we use rock band controllers.
Yeah. It's I I've come
to think of myself as
a bit of a patron
Saint of abandon and controllers
because my workshop is just
littered with full things like
the, the Novant Falcon, which
was a haptic controller that
was out for awhile. I've
wired up an exercise bike
to be a keyboard and
control different games. And I
love the play of that,
that just changing how you
interface with something affects how
you enjoy it and what
you think of doing with
it, which is probably the
reason I've, I've kept the
space or a, a bit
of life support for quite
many years at this point,
, you know, one of
the greatest game controllers ever
made and certainly an utter
and complete waste of plastic
is the, the legendary, yeah.
X-Box steel battalion controller, Basically
an entire dashboard. I mean,
yeah, The thing is like
three feet wide and every
button means something like literally
every button works. They didn't
just say here's two joysticks,
Simpson, plastic, they lied, they
lit it all up, but
it's a huge waste. And
now you find them at
Goodwill, which is just sad.
It is. And actually it's
at a junk stores like
that, that I found a
whole lot of space orbs
or very similar devices. So
the, the orbit itself was
an a game controller. It
was intended for that purpose,
but there was also a
variant actually, I think, for
the PlayStation one. And there
were a number of desk
mounted versions, which were primarily
used by the CAD community.
You could hold your model
if you will using the
orb and move it around
to look at different things
and then use a mouse
to do manipulations to it.
And those actually had a
work surprisingly, one of those
game controllers as well, because
now you can have your
course movement in one hand
and you're fine movement with
the mouse for aiming and
the other, what you then
lose is the ability to
flail at the keys and
select weapons or do other
actions. But that combination actually
works surprisingly well. So I
don't think just even though
the orbit self has, has
kind of, well, it's in
suspended animation, and we're keeping
it alive in some ways
that idea that you can
have degrees of freedom and
one control surface is still,
I think, alive and well.
I've Both a space orb,
three 60, the original game
controller that I got on
eBay. Yeah. As well as
the larger space, what is
it? The long one, that's
almost like a forum That
you use for CAD with
any of that. Well, there
were a couple of different
models. The space ball 4,000
was one and the 5,000
looked very similar. Yeah. I'd
have one of the, one
of the thousands Special one
these are not made, is
that correct? The company has
gone 3d connection. I don't
think it makes them anymore.
You know, there were, there
was another company in Magellan
which made the Magellan space
mouse. And I don't remember
if they still exist either,
although they might write three
connection. Has these kind of
like balls are knobbies, like
almost like the volume controller
on your, you know, old
style stereo. Yes. I've seen
those. Right. And they're basically
just a knob and then
you can pull them. Yeah.
So it's a similar idea,
but it, to me, I
think it wouldn't feel quite
as nice. I'm not sure
I've not used one yet.
Indeed. So the space or
three 60 had a nine
pin serial port at what?
9,600 BPS. Yes. So it
was a 9,600 and it
was cereal. And it's probably
a little difficult to imagine
for a lot of people
who did not live through
that. What connecting something to
a computer was like back
then, because this was before
the universal serial bus, you
didn't even have USB, there
were specialist controls or, or
plugs for joystick ports and
anything more advanced had to
communicate over this serial bus
with this massive nine pin
serial connector. And that's what
the org chose to do.
Hm. And was there was
that enough fidelity. We have
systems now. And every Xbox
controller is a full computer
that has to have firmware
updated and they send stereo
and video and all kinds
of context and information is
9,600 BPS serial enough for
six degrees, Freedom plus buttons.
It is. But when you're
just doing the input and
you're not carrying all of
the other information, the protocol
that they used was actually
kind of complicated and they
had different settings that would
tell you different things about
it. And there were different
response curves so that if
you pushed it a certain
distance, you know, that proportionally
would get you more or
less of an output than
at the center than it
would at the edges. So
that you had a little
bit of freedom in the
middle, but the real Achilles
heel, I think of it,
it wasn't just the complication
of learning to use the
silly thing, but there were
only six buttons and that
you run out quite quickly,
especially in a modern shooter
where even the, the shooters
back then first person games
in science you'd have a
number of different things. You'd
want to choose different weapons
to send. For example, you
had a key for the
map and a key for
a different weapon and the
key for different rocket and
the key for this and
the key for that. And
if you had to hold
the thing in one hand
and grab the ball with
the other, you really ran
out of inputs very quickly.
So that was another little
problem that had had that
nowadays. I think people expect,
and Microsoft does encourage this
a bit with the X
input API. They expect an
ape, a Xbox style controller,
and they will use every
input on that. And they
figure that's all the inputs
they have. So they won't
bother with more, but at
the time people would just
design games for as many
keys as they thought people
could humanly press. And if
your controller didn't have enough
buttons on it, well, so
much the worst for you.
So it was a bit
of a mismatch there as
well. Acne and Zen database
is the best in class,
single secure, scalable architecture for
edge data management. It's the
perfect solution for software developers
who want dedicated application data
management and deliver business critical
products and services into OT
and low it environments, customizable
installation, self tuning, seamless backward
compatibility, minimal memory requirements and
exceptionally low support requirements and
better performance than most alternatives
like SQL Lite all means
that you can deliver applications
to customers at scale across
a wide range of platforms
with direct access from C
plus plus Python and other
popular languages. Zen simple set
of API significantly expands the
pools of developers capable of
building their next business critical
application on acting Zen, try
today at  dot com
slash Zen that's act I
a n.com/zen. So I wrote
a blog post in September
of 2010, where I discovered
a website called J Crow
Crow with an e.com and
he still runs it's Birdman
space or message board. So
this is almost 10 years,
Years ago, nine years ago.
And there was discussion there
about a mapping between hid
or human interface device kind
of standards at the time,
10 years ago. And the
space orb and Arduino was
I think, just getting started
so you could buy an
Arduino and do cool stuff
with it. And then put
on top of the Arduino,
a, a hat or a,
what was the word? They
call them the shields for
some reason. So you put
a shield on top, you
plug your serial port into
one side and you USB
into the other side and
you bridge, you bridge the
old and the new you
bridge the nineties serial port
world, the nine pin RS,
two 32 with a direct
X and direct input. This
is 10 years ago, you
were doing this. How would
they heck did you pull
this off? Well, that journey
started even earlier than that.
When I, the problem with
older controllers is of course
the companies go defunct or
abandoned them. And so I
use my space or for
quite a while, until windows
XP kind of started giving
up the ghost, actually it
was, I think the arrival
of XB that broke the
driver. And at that point,
I thought, well, I I'd
love to use it this
thing, but I don't know
how to use it. So
I will write a windows
driver. It was very imaginative,
imaginative of me at the
time, because it turns out
driver development is an extremely
painful little subset of software
development. And particularly when you're
mucking about an protected areas
like you do with drivers,
you can trash hard drives.
You can do terrible things
to your computer. So after
flailing at that for a
while, and having the APIs
change with different additions of
the operating system, I said,
what I'd like to do
is just bridge directly to
a USB controller, a human
interface device. And in fact,
move, what I was doing
essentially is writing a hardware
driver where you plug in
a DB nine, you'd have
software on the Arduino microcontroller,
which would parse the input
and spit out an event
stream. And then you could
map that event stream to
arbitrary human interface, device actions.
And so what happened is
you would plug this thing
in and the Arduino would
communicate. They had had a
native RS, two 30, two
serial type communication. So it
would load things from the
orb and then it didn't
have a very good USB
output. So we would emulate
that by a piece of
software, which I borrowed from
other folks, all praise open
source. And it would just
kind of bit bang, manually
turn lines on and off
too. Send the signals over
USB and lo and behold.
Oh yeah, it was a
strange thing, very manual and
very error prone. So I
was timing specific and timing
extraordinarily. So, but at the
end of the day, it
all worked and you could
plug it in and it
would show up on your
computer as a six axis,
16 button game controller. Now
the 16 buttons was a
bit of a stretch. This
is actually still the question
I get the most when
people start using this as
why don't the edge buttons
work. So again, hard to
imagine this thing, but you
can imagine holding something that
looks a bit like a
Crescent shape and on the
face of it facing toward
you or four buttons and
on the edge where your
index finger would lie or
two more. And I thought
one thing that really frustrated
me was that problem of
running out of buttons earlier.
So I would try courting.
So the four face buttons,
Brian would be on different
pages and you'd have zero
one, two, three, or one,
two, three, four. If you
don't start at zero like
normal humans and you'd press
one button and then you'd
have a five, six, seven,
eight press another button, nine,
10, 11, 12, and press
both of them together and
you'd have up to 16.
So you had 16 virtual
buttons. And once you got
the hang of it, that
actually works surprisingly well, because
then you would think maybe
thematically the front page buttons
were for firing weapons in
the game or whatever the
second page buttons might be
for selecting weapons, that sort
of thing. And then the
fund only got more because
if you're already emulating a
human interface device, it's only
a step from there to
say, well, it's not just
emulating a joystick. You could
also make it emulate a
mouse or a keyboard. And
that was a very fun
rabbit hole to drop down
because after a while, it
got to the point where
you go to assign axes
to keyboard buttons or mouse
movements and get control from
this thing in games, which
never even imagined being controlled
by a joystick, much less
a ball on a game
pad. So very fun, very
fun project. And it demanded
a fair amount from me.
My software development background had
not included microprocessors up to
that point. And I thought,
well, this is it. You
know, I, I think we're
done and Alaska, it, it
wasn't the case. So we
actually, I envisioned that as
a kit because I kind
of grew up in the
era of Heath kit, which
is this wonderful company which
had a motto. We will
not let you fail and
you'd buy a kit for
building a radio and you'd
learn how to build a
radio. So I made little
kits for these orbs shields
and a couple of the
follow ons, but more often
than not, people just wanted
to actually use their old
device without learning to solder
things together and write software.
So I, I thought something
a little more user friendly
might be an order. And
it's, it's still not terribly
user-friendly, but we moved from
having an Arduino, which you
would purchase and then the
shield, which you would purchase
and stick on top to
actually trying to manufacture a,
an all in one device.
So who does that Though?
I mean, here's the thing,
there's, there's all these people
on the internet. And we
talked to them all the
time and they have all
these amazing ideas, but so,
so rarely do they do
it though. You had an
idea. I've had lots Ideas.
I have about 30 registered
domains that are all a
monument to my failure to
execute You actually not done
only from writing software easy,
but then making, making onside
drivers and then drivers for
windows Vista and then making
a board making instructions and
then creating the boards like,
is this, this is a
hobby or is your spouse
okay with this? You know,
How do you execute and
ship Physical stuff when it's
not a business, I will
tell you not very efficiently.
And my wife actually is
very much okay with it.
In fact, when she learned
about it, she saw what
we were doing and learned
how to put things together.
She actually became much better
than I am at at
soldering. The silly things it
is, she's absolutely delightful. The
manufacturer actually took a long
time and it mostly came
from this. Of course we
all know and love open
source software, but opensource hardware
is quite a movement as
well. And so the Arduino,
wasn't just a nice thing
you could buy and take
home and play with the
specifications are online. The schematics
are online. So you quickly
could see, Oh, well this
is just a bunch of
parts and I can assemble
them together. And if I
only knew how to create
a circuit board, then that
would happen. And so I
learned how to create circuit
boards through a, a really,
really primitive process of photocopying
schematics onto magazine pages, and
then ironing them onto circuit
boards and etching away, which
was not the way you
really wanted to do it.
But I learned, and then
with the advent of kind
of the hobbyist electronics serum,
a lot of circuit board
shops, I mean, proper fabrication
shops have cropped up where
you can send away a
design and get boards back
in just a couple of
weeks. And this takes a
while. I love software because
you can type a new
thing and you'll, you'll get
the results instantly instead of
trying something out and getting
a prototype back in a
couple of weeks, but it
didn't work, but hardware is
painful. It's extraordinarily frustrating in
the world of software. You
never, you know, write a
program and then have to
say, I'm afraid the four
loop didn't really work out
on that one. You're going
to have to tune it
up. You know, you, you
modify it, but there's not
a gap between design and
manufacturing and in many ways,
right? And with hardware, especially
small scale batches, the tools
and techniques you have to
use are almost comical. So
when I first started producing
these, I was on an
assignment in London. And the
way you put the lay
things out, as you put
a stencil down and you'd
smear soldering paste all over
and they would get through
the holes in the stencil
and soldering paste is just
a little blobs of solder
floating in flux. And you
take this and you delicately
put all of your little,
you know, bite-sized components on
some of these things are
as small as a grain
of rice, you know, the
little resistors and capacitors and
such. And then I would
literally cook them on a
$30 hot plate that I
bought from target and turn
up the heat until I
could see the solder melting.
And eventually it would coalesce.
And then you turn it
down and pull everything off
and then you'd start testing
and find out what everything
didn't work then traces might
be bridged, or things might
need to be moved and
modified. So it's really fairly
painful to actually get through.
And, and if you're not
careful and you let things
sit too long, for example,
this latest batch Sutter pay
set too long, and it
didn't spread very well. And
out of eight boards, we've
only got one that came
out cleanly and worked from
the beginning, all the rest
of you're going to need
rework. So I hate hardware,
but there's something really nice
that is different from software.
In that you get a
thing, a physical thing, you
can hold in your hand
and plug in and it'll
light up or communicate and
do something. And that's really
engaging, which is one thing
that keeps me coming back
to controllers and small electronics
project, because I just think
that's absolutely wonderful. And I
bought an orange shield and
I put it together and
I've got it. I'm looking
at it right now. And
it sits on top of
an older Arduino and it,
it looks big and things
are spaced far apart. And
now I'm looking at the
new thing of Tron, which
is amazing. What is it
called? The thing Ultron 9,000.
So the, a thing of
transactionally, the, the company name,
or I should say these
self-propagating hobby named Arbitron 9,000
for awhile. I foresaw a
bunch of different little devices
that would all end in
Otranto because I just thought
it was hilarious for no
apparent reason. There was the
kettle Tron, which was a
temperature controller for teakettles electric
huddles, or as the, I
can't remember I was putting
together another small amplifier, things
like that. Cause I thought
it would be fun for
people to have kits right
now we're a little divorced
from our electronics in a
sense, a phone is a
magical black box and you
don't really know what goes
on it. And I thought
it would be nice for
'em to have small kits
of different devices that people
could open up and with
and put together a and
alas, I ran out of
time and also had a
child. Both of those things
happen in close proximity. It's
funny how those things happen.
And then projects, one project
replaces another where indeed the
baby replaces the Arbitron. I'm
looking at a picture of
an orbit drawn here and
it's small and stylish, and
it's got that lovely. It
is literally, it probably could
be even smaller, but it's
limited by the, the, the,
the size of the, the
nine pin serial adapter on
the side there, right? The
serial adapter takes up the
bulk of the board. And
nowadays, instead of this giant
Arduino, well, we have a
very small flat packaged ATS
AMD, 21 chip with a
ton more memory, and it's
on more speed, which we
don't entirely need. And the
only other thing that's really
on the board chip wise
is a small RS, two
32 adapter, because the, the
orb did a couple of
different things that communicated at
a much higher voltage than
you want to have on
a small USB powered board.
So that little ship adjusts
voltage levels and handles the
serial communication. And then the
only other components on there
are a bunch of little
capacitors for voltage smoothing and
voltage adapters as power sources.
So you're right. It could
actually be even smaller. The
two limiting factors are the
plug itself, which is this
big old 19 era or
in 1990s era serial port,
and my ability to place
things with tweezers. And how,
how do you do you
from do firmware flash this
yourself? Like if I buy
one someday, you know, in
a, in a perfect world,
does it come with code
that you've added and then
is it, is it updatable?
Yes. So this basically is
an Arduino. This is adapted
from the wonderful aid of
fruit, one of their boards
with a similar processor. And
so it runs a very
similar firmware and it is
actually programmable from the Arduino
IDE. And the idea was
that was how you would
modify it and map things
to different control surfaces. And
so now keyboard commands as
you'd write a separate program
and, and upload it. And
it does work smashingly well
for me and other folks
seem to have a little
bit of a hard time
with it. And I'm not
sure if it's a device
driver issue, but yes, it
is actually quite adaptable and
reprogrammable. I do flash it
here with a hardware flashing
device. I'm don't know what
else you can call it,
but it's ideally just flushable
from the USB port. You
load up the Arduino ID,
you can still send code
to it. And what I'd
like to move toward one
of the new trends, I
think in the small electronics,
like Arduino is languages like
circuit Python, where you just
write code, drop it right
on the device as if
it was a flash drive.
It just shows up as
a storage device and then
things run. I think that
would be a lot more
convenient because honestly, the difficulty
of setting up the Arduino
ID and downloading the extra
drivers for the board and
getting them to talk nicely
has been a bit of
a difficulty, but it does
work. And I have had
a head folks say that
it works actually very well,
and I've had others that
never quite managed to get
it to work. And in
the programmability side of things,
it always seems to work
as it stands, you know,
plugging it in and getting
a game device out of
it. As I look around
on the internet and Google
around for orbs and orbit
shield and space, or I
find a, unfortunately just a
littered mess of broken domains,
people over the last 10
years doing this, but there
are still those of us,
myself included who are passionate
about making this happen. Here's
the question? Is it just
you and me left or
right there, are we talking,
you know, there's dozens, dozens
of us, you know, like
what are we looking at
here? Well, I often wonder
that myself and my, I
sort of say, you know,
this is an awful lot
of effort, just onesy twosy
and these boards out, because,
you know, if this, if
I knew we were going
to have hundreds of units
sold, it would be worthwhile
to pay for someone else
to assemble them. And they'd
probably be a lot nicer
and smaller and prettier. But
when I make a batch
of eight 16, something like
that, they'll trickle out over
a period of a couple
of months. And every time
I threatened to stop making
them, my wife says, yeah,
but you always sell every
batch. So yeah, there are
actually quite a few people
who still want them and
they're surprisingly spread around the
world. You know, we've had
buyers from Australia, various countries
in Europe, the UK. And
so there are lovers basically
around the world and surprisingly
many of them still interested
in using it. Well, I
hope that we, we find
them. I hope that this
podcast educates the people, not
just the people, but also
the young people who should
immediately go to eBay and
find themselves one of these,
because I think it is
just a joy, but I'm
also a big fan of
history, remembering our history and
being able to keep that
history alive. And I love
that you're doing that with
open source hardware and software,
and that you didn't just
make a custom board and
make it totally non programmable
and closed that you used
Arduino pieces because it in
itself, like if you go
away, the arbitrage 9,000 could
live live forever. It could
indeed, even the design of
the board is online at
a get hub repository and
I'll send you the link.
Oh, fantastic. Thank you so
much, dr. Vic putts for
talking to me today about
the world's greatest game controller,
this space orb three 60
and the Orbitrap 9,001. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week. .